# 非谓语动词

## 不定式

### 不定式作宾语

#### ~ to do sth

- [[../词汇/4 word library/Word List A#afford|afford]]
- agree
- appear
- arrange
- ask
- beg
- care 努力做某事
- choose
- claim
- consent
- decide
- demand
- desire
- determine
- expect
- fail
- forget
- happen
- hesitate
- hope
- intend
- learn
- long 渴望做某事
- manage 成功
- need
- offer
- plan
- prepare
- pretend
- promise
- refuse
- seem
- struggle
- swear
- tend
- threaten
- try
- volunteer
- wait
- want
- wish
#### ~ it to do sth
- feel
- find
- judge
- think
- believe
- consider

#### adj. to do sth.

- able
- afraid
- anxious
- careful
- content
- determined
- eager
- foolish
- free
- inclined
- likely
- prepared 愿意的
- quick
- slow
- willing

#### 固定句型
##### have no ~ but to do sth
- choice
- option
- alternative

##### do ~ but do sth.

- nothing

#### ~ wh/how to do sth.

- know
- tell
- show
- understand
- wonder
    - I wonder how to go there
    - I wonder who to go there
- teach
- discuss

### 不定式作补语

#### ~ sb. to do sth.
- advice
- allow
- ask
- beg
- cause
- challenge
- command
- convince
- enable
- encourage
- expect
- forbid
- force
- get
- hate
- hire
- help
- instruct
- intend
- invite
- leave
- like
- need
- oblige
- order
- permit
- persuade
- promise
- remind
- request
- require
- teach
- tell
- tempt
- urge
- want
- warn
- wish
#### 例句

- He is thought to have acted foolishly.Now he has no one but himself to blame for losing the job.
  - blame v.责备；承担责任
- They are going to have the serviceman install an electric fan in the office tomorrow.

## 动名词

### 动名词的时态语态

#### doing

- I like eating dumplings.

#### being doing
- I dislike being laughed at.

#### having done

- The boy admitted having cheated in the exam.

#### having been done

- I appreciate having been invited to your home.

### 动名词的句法功能

#### 动名词做主语

- Driving is tiring
- It is no use/good/need/point doing sth.
- It is no use crying over the spilt milk.覆水难收

#### 动名词做宾语

- admit
- appreciate
- avoid
- anticioate
- delay
- deny
- dislike
- enjoy
- escape
- favor doing sth.
- keep
- mind
- miss
- postpone
- practice
- quit
- recall doing sth.
- report
- resist 
- resume
- risk
- suggest

##### 跟动名词作宾语的动词短语

- can't stand 
- can't help doing 情不自禁做
  - = can't help but do
- give up
- put off
- feel like

##### 跟动名词和不定式

- attempt 
- begin
- continue
- deserve
- hate
- neglect
- like
- love
- prefer

##### 做介词或介词短语

- look forward to 
- object to
- object to
- confess to
- lead to
- be reated to
- be accustomed to=be used to doing
- be opposed to
- be familiar to
- in addition to
- instead of
- see about 按排做
- keep on 

##### 动名词做宾语省略in

- there is no point
- have difficulty/problem/trouble/a hard time/agood time doing
- be busy

#### 动名词做定语

- a sleeping dog {现在分词}
- a sleeping bag {动名词}
- a swimming pool
- a reading room
- a dining hall

>[!warning]+ 现在分词与动名词作定语的区别
> - 现在分词做定语：主动、进行
> - 动名词做定语：用途、功能、性质

#### 动名词做表语

- The queen's job is laying eggs in the ant world.

#### 动名词做同位语

- I want to find a job, repairing cars.
