# 完形填空

## 第一篇

well, soft(软), ~~second~~,~~better~~, ~~may~~, ~~strongly~~, ~~afraid~~, ~~sand(沙子)~~, ~~stay up(屹立不倒；熬夜)~~, if, ~~now~~, ~~house~~

We can＇t stop an earthquake(地震),but we can do things to make sure they don't destroy(毁坏) whole cities.First, it is not a __good__ idea to build houses along lines where __two__ of the earth’s plates(n.板块) join(链接) together. Second, if you think there __may__ be an earthquake, it is better to build houses on rocks(岩石), not on/rather than __sand__.Third, you must make the houses as __strong__ as possible.Weak(adj.虚弱的；软弱的) buildings will collapse(fall down) in an earthquake, but strong ones may __stay up__ .Scientists are __afraid__ that one day an even bigger earthquake will hit the part around San Francisco(旧金山). They call it“The Big One ”.However, people today are still building more __houses__ .The [#population](.md#population) in and around San Francisco is __now__ ten times more than it was in 1906.This means that __if__ there is another earthquake, a great many houses and buildings will be destroyed.


## 第二篇

forget, ~~bring~~, ~~mend(维修)~~, beside, luck, pick, same, differently, I, every, stop, each

Mr.Brown had an umbrella shop in a small town. People sometimes **brought** him broken umbrellas, and then he took them to a big shop in London. They were **mended** there. One day Mr.Brown went to London by train. He **forgot** to take an umbrella with him that day. Sitting in front of him was a man with an umbrella standing **beside** the seat. When the train arrived in London, Mr.Brown **picked** up the umbrella as he often did during his journey by train. Just as he was getting off, he was **stopped** by the man. He said angrily, "That's **mine** !"Mr. Brown's face turned red and he gave it back to the man at once.When Mr Brown got to the big shop, the shopkeeper had got his six umbrellas ready. After a good look at **each** of them, he said, "You've mended them very well."In the afternoon he got into the train again. The **same** man was in the same seat. He looked at Mr.Brown and his six umbrellas, "You've had a **lucky** day,"he said.